✍ Getting started with Laravel

Laravel is most trending PHP framework in the market.

Laravel is developed by - Taylor Otwell (2011)

✍ Why Laravel?

Very very easy (Myth)
Highly upgradable
Highly scalable
Open source and totally free
Highly secure
Large community on Github, laracast.com and stackoverflow

✍ Some other frameworks of PHP

laravel
codeIgnitor
yii
cakephp
fuelphp
phalcon
zend
symfony
slimphp
zwave
...


phpmailer ---> github repository ---> readme.md
carbon ---> Date and Time manage ---> readme.md

✍ Why frameworks?

Frameworks are collection of packages, classes, methods and in-built functionalities.

✍ How to install laravel?

Make sure composer have installed.
open cmd and type :
composer -v 2.x

✍ Composer

Composer is a dependency manager tool.
Composer is used to install any new package and upgrade to any new package.
All the packages are downloaded from packagist.org server.
Composer is a type package manager tool.
Composer is same as pip in python.
Composer is same as npm in node.
Composer is same as apt in linux.


Download link for composer - https://getcomposer.org/download/

✍ How to install Laravel?

1) Using laravel installer
composer global require laravel/installer (first-time)
laravel new <project-name> (any-time)

2) Using composer create-project command
composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel <project-name> (any-time)

✍ How to run laravel application?

goto inside project-folder
1) artisan file : anonymous file
2) .env file : anonymous file

php artisan serve (serve is a command line argument)

artisan : command line argument tool for laravel.

✍ Laravel ( Brief Overview)

Laravel strictly follows design pattern like other frameworks.
All the 23 design patterns are implemented in laravel.
That's why strong OOPS is must to know for getting started with laravel.

Laravel uses MVC concept like other frameworks...

M : Model
All the database related part and database query logic like database connection database query QueryBuilder everything comes under model.
It is type of class (core file).
Note : Eloquent is Query Builder of model component.

V : Views
Views refers the template or HTML views like form, about us, contact us, etc.
Views are responsible to handle the presentation part of web app or you can views are responsible for front-end.
All the files related to front-end are related to views.
Every views file in laravel is called blade (any-name.blade.php) file.
It is type of hybrid file.

C : Controller
It is also a type of class (core file).
Controller is middle-man or intermediate component b/w model and views.

How it works?
Any request coming from views it will send to controller and controller with then send to model to update the db.
Similarly any changes in db will seen by model and send to the controller for render in the view.

Directory (Folder) structure of laravel

























































